Well later once we add HTTP requests, you should also be aware of the network page. Right now,
this only contains all the Javascript files we download, Ionic automatically splits the code by component
and therefore we have a lot of downloads
but this is actually good because it keeps the different chunks of the apps small
and later once we also send our requests to a back-end to store data there or fetch data from there,
you can see these requests there too
and you can always look into the request and see the data it holds and this can help you understand when
a request is sent,
if there are requests being sent that shouldn't be sent
and if they hold the correct data. You also sometimes have visual issues, that the UI doesn't look the
way you would have expected it to
and in this case, the elements tab is great. Here in the browser, you see your complete DOM with all the
elements and you can dive into them here,
you can inspect the styling, all the classes that are added to an element down here.
You can see which class in which file is responsible for this style in case you want to change it
if it's one of your files or if it's an Ionic file, you know which style you need to overwrite in one
of your files.
You can also select an element directly in your page by clicking on this button up there and then selecting
what you want to inspect
and on the right here, you also see a nice representation of how much margin this has, a border padding
and the size and so on and again, you can dive into way more here,
find out which event listeners are registered and so on and so on. There is way more you can do, which
properties you can set on this element,
there really are tons of things you can do here
and again, this is something you can learn if you dive into the Chrome developer tools in general,
this is nothing Ionic specific. But keep the elements tab in mind for any visual or layout issues
you have,
this helps you debug them. Also important especially once you are finishing up your app are the performance
and memory tabs here, the performance and memory tabs allow you to measure exactly that.
You can record a snapshot of the performance of your application, stop that and then you see how long
execution of different scripts took
and you can see if a script is blocking something, if a script is taking too long and in memory, you can
spot memory leaks.
You can basically take a snapshot here to see how your memory is occupied and by which processes and
so on and this can be really helpful
and again, the official docs are a great place to learn more about how to read this and so on.
Most important for you here, for the immediate bug fixing are things like console log, setting breakpoints,
and also inspecting the UI of course.